You can follow the below for the basic configuration steps to get the Jira mail handler using the new OAuth 2.0 authentication method connected to an O365 or a Gmail mailbox:-


1.	Log in as a user with the JIRA System Administrators global permission.
2.	Navigate to Administration > System > OAuth 2.0
3.	Click on Add new integration
4.	At the "Service provider", select Microsoft
5.	Click on Copy at the Redirect URL field
6.	Let's login to "https://portal.azure.com/"
7.	Click on App registrations
8.	Click on New registration
9.	Let's pickup a friendly name so it will be easier to identify
10.	Under the "Supported account types" section, let's choose "Accounts in any organizational directory (Any Azure AD directory - Multitenant) and personal Microsoft accounts (e.g. Skype, Xbox)"
11.	Under the "Redirect URI" section, let's pickup Web and insert the URL from the step #5 above
12.	Click on Register
13.	Click on API permissions
14.	Click on Add a permission
15.	Click on Microsoft Graph
16.	Select Delegated permissions
17.	Let's select the following permissions: 
18.	OpenId permissions: offline_access
19.	IMAP: IMAP.AccessAsUser.All
20.	POP: POP.AccessAsUser.All
1.	Click on Add permissions
2.	Click on Grant admin consent for ...
3.	Click on Certificates & secrets
4.	Click on New client secret
5.	Choose a description and expiration date
6.	Take note of the Value generated (this will be used as the "Client secret" at Jira)
7.	Click on Overview
8.	Take note of the Application (client) ID (this will be used as the "Client ID" at Jira)
9.	Let's go back to Jira and complete the configuration by inserting the following details: 
1.	Client ID (from step #25 above)
2.	Client secret (from step #23 above)
3.	Scopes: "https://outlook.office.com/IMAP.AccessAsUser.All", "https://outlook.office.com/POP.AccessAsUser.All" and "offline_access"
10.	Click on Save
11.	Test the connection
 If the connection was successful, please proceed
12.	Navigate to Administration > System > Incoming Mail
13.	Click on Add mail server
14.	At the "Service Provider" field, let's pick up Microsoft Exchange Online / Outlook (IMAP)
15.	At the "Username" field, insert the email address being used by Jira
16.	At the "Authentication method" field, select the new server created under the OAuth 2.0 menu
17.	Click on Authorize
18.	Click on Test Connection
19.	Click on Save
